Compiled test.osl -> test.oso
test && and || short-circuiting:

 func returning true
 func returning true
true && true is 1

 func returning true
 func returning false
true && false is 0

 func returning false
false && true is 0

 func returning false
false && false is 0

 func returning true
true || true is 1

 func returning true
true || false is 1

 func returning false
 func returning true
false || true is 1

 func returning false
 func returning false
false || false is 0

test && and || short-circuiting:

 func returning true
 func returning true
true && true is 1

 func returning true
 func returning false
true && false is 0

 func returning false
false && true is 0

 func returning false
false && false is 0

 func returning true
true || true is 1

 func returning true
true || false is 1

 func returning false
 func returning true
false || true is 1

 func returning false
 func returning false
false || false is 0

test && and || short-circuiting:

 func returning true
 func returning true
true && true is 1

 func returning true
 func returning false
true && false is 0

 func returning false
false && true is 0

 func returning false
false && false is 0

 func returning true
true || true is 1

 func returning true
true || false is 1

 func returning false
 func returning true
false || true is 1

 func returning false
 func returning false
false || false is 0

test && and || short-circuiting:

 func returning true
 func returning true
true && true is 1

 func returning true
 func returning false
true && false is 0

 func returning false
false && true is 0

 func returning false
false && false is 0

 func returning true
true || true is 1

 func returning true
true || false is 1

 func returning false
 func returning true
false || true is 1

 func returning false
 func returning false
false || false is 0


