Corporate Contributor License Agreement ("Agreement")

Thank you for your interest in the Open Shading Language Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC (hereinafter "Project"). In order to clarify the
intellectual property licenses granted with Contributions from any corporate
entity to the Project, LF Projects, LLC ("LF Projects") is required to have
a Corporate Contributor License Agreement (CCLA) on file that has been
signed by each contributing corporation.

Each contributing corporation ("You") must accept and agree that, for any
Contribution (as defined below), You and all other individuals and entities
that control You, are controlled by You, or are under common control with
You, are bound by the licenses granted and representations made as though
all such individuals and entities are a single contributor. For the purposes
of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to
cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"Contribution" means any code, documentation or other original work of
authorship that is submitted to LF Projects for inclusion in the Project by
Your employee or by any individual or entity that controls You, or is under
common control with You or is controlled by You and authorized to make the
submission on Your behalf.

You accept and agree that all of Your present and future Contributions to
the Project shall be:

Submitted under a Developer's Certificate of Origin v. 1.1 (DCO); and
Licensed under the BSD-3-Clause License.

You agree that You shall be bound by the terms of the BSD-3-Clause License
for all contributions made by You and Your employees. Your designated
employees are those listed by Your CLA Manager(s) on the system of record
for the Project. You agree to identify Your initial CLA Manager below and
thereafter maintain current CLA Manager records in the Project's system of
record.


Initial CLA Manager (Name and Email): ______________________________________


Corporate Signature:


Company Name: ____________________________________________


Signature: _______________________________________________


Name: _______________________________________________


Title _______________________________________________


Date: _______________________________________________
